Peer deployment guide (#1803)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/deployment_guide_overview.rst

  As part of the overall decisions you have to make about your peers (how many, how many on each channel, and so on) and about your ordering service (how many nodes, who will own them), you also have to decide on how the CAs for your organization will be deployed. Production networks should be using Transport Layer Security (TLS), which will require setting up a TLS CA and using it to generate TLS certificates. This TLS CA will need to be deployed before your enrollment CA. We'll discuss this more in :ref:`dg-step-three-set-up-your-cas`.

* **Use Organizational Units or not?**

>   Some organizations might find it necessary to establish Organizational Units to create a separation between certain identities and MSPs created by a single CA. Note that this is separate from the concept of the "Node OU", in which identities can have roles coded into them (for example, "admin" or "peer").

Reviewer: Can "separation between certain identities and MSPs created by a single CA" be clarified?

* **Database type.**

>   Some channels in a network might require all data to be modeled in a way :doc:`couchdb_as_state_database` can understand, while other networks, prioritizing speed, might decide that all peers will use LevelDB. Note that channels should not have peers that use both CouchDB and LevelDB on them, as the two database types model data slightly differently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Some channels in a network might require all data to be modeled in a way :doc:`couchdb_as_state_database` can understand, while other networks, prioritizing speed, might decide that all peers will use LevelDB. Note that channels should not have peers that use both CouchDB and LevelDB on them, as CouchDB imposes some data restrictions on keys and values. Keys and values that are valid in LevelDB may not be valid in CouchDB.
```

.. note:: You can extrapolate environment variables from the parameters in the relevant YAML file by using all capital letters, underscores between the relevant phrases, and a prefix. For example, the peer configuration variable called ``peer.localMSPid`` (which is the ``localMSPid`` variable inside the ``peer`` configuration section) in ``core.yaml`` would be rendered as an environment variable called ``CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID``, while the ordering service environment variable ``General.LocalMSPID`` in the ``General`` section of the ``orderer.yaml`` configuration file would be rendered as an environment variable called ``ORDERER_GENERAL_LOCALMSPID``.

.. _dg-create-a-peer:

Creating a peer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you’ve read through of key concept topic on :doc:`peers/peers`, you should have a good idea of the role peers play in a network and the nature of their interactions with other network components. Peers are owned by organizations that are members of a channel (for this reason, these organizations are sometimes called "peer organizations"). They connect to the ordering service and to other peers, have smart contracts installed on them, and are where ledgers are stored.

> These roles are important to understand before you create a peer, as they will influence your customization and deployment decisions. For a look at the various decisions you will need to make, check out doc:`deploypeer/peerplan`.

Reviewer: doc link to peerplan doesn't work

These roles are important to understand before you create a peer, as they will influence your customization and deployment decisions. For a look at the various decisions you will need to make, check out doc:`deploypeer/peerplan`.

The configuration values in a peer's ``core.yaml`` file must be customized or overridden with environment variables. You can find the default ``core.yaml`` configuration file `in the sampleconfig directory of Hyperledger Fabric <https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/master/sampleconfig/core.yaml>`_. This configuration file is bundled with the peer image and is also included with the downloadable binaries. For information about how to download the production ``core.yaml`` along with the peer image, check out :doc:`deploypeer/peerdeploy`.

While there are many parameters in the default ``core.yaml``, you will only need to customize a small percentage of them. In general, if you do not have the need to change a tuning value, keep the default value.

> You can think of ``core.yaml`` as having three main types of paramaters:

Reviewer: You've got four categories here :-)
I would soften it even more and not mention 'main types', there are other important areas such as couchdb and pkcs11 as well.

Author: I considered the operations and metrics to be a subset of addresses, not its own distinct type, so I just went ahead and folded it into there.

.. _dg-step-five-deploy-nodes:

Step five: Deploy peers and ordering nodes
------------------------------------------

Once you have gathered all of the certificates and MSPs you need, you're almost ready to create a node. As discussed above, there are a number of valid ways to deploy nodes.

Before any node can be deployed, its configuration file must be customized. For the peer, this file is called ``core.yaml``, while the configuration file for ordering nodes is called ``orderer.yaml``.

You have three main options for tuning your configuration.

1. Edit the YAML file bundled with the binaries.
2. Use environment variable overrides when deploying.
3. Specify flags on CLI commands.

Option 1 has the advantage of persisting your changes whenever you bring down and bring back up the node. The downside is that you will have to port the options you customized to the new YAML when upgrading to a new binary version (you should use the latest YAML when upgrading to a new version).

> .. note:: You can extrapolate environment variables from the parameters in the relevant YAML file by using all capital letters, underscores between the relevant phrases, and a prefix. For example, the peer configuration variable called ``localMSPid`` in ``core.yaml`` would be rendered as an environment variable called ``CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID``, while the ordering service environment variable ``LocalMSPID`` in the ``orderer.yaml`` configuration file would be rendered as an environment variable called ``ORDERER_GENERAL_LOCALMSPID``.

Reviewer: Let's add the variable prefixes, like this:
```suggestion
.. note:: You can extrapolate environment variables from the parameters in the relevant YAML file by using all capital letters, underscores between the relevant phrases, and a prefix. For example, the peer configuration variable called ``peer.localMSPid`` in ``core.yaml`` would be rendered as an environment variable called ``CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID``, while the ordering service environment variable ``General.LocalMSPID`` in the ``orderer.yaml`` configuration file would be rendered as an environment variable called ``ORDERER_GENERAL_LOCALMSPID``.
```

>           For cases where a parameter is part of a larger configuration section, use an underscore between the section heading and the parameter. For example, in ``orderer.yaml``, the ``TLS`` section has a sub-parameter called ``Enabled``. This parameter would therefore be rendered as an environment variable called ``ORDERER_GENERAL_TLS_ENABLED``.

Reviewer: 'General' is the top section in orderer.yaml. So either mention 'General' as well (General.TLS.Enabled), or entirely remove this paragraph, as it should be clear based on the General.LocalMSPID example above.

.. _dg-create-a-peer:

Creating a peer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you’ve read through of key concept topic on :doc:`peers/peers`, you should have a good idea of the role peers play in a network and the nature of their interactions with other network components. Put simply, peers are the physical extension of transacting organizations (which are, for this reason, sometimes called "peer organizations"). They connect to the ordering service and to other peers, have smart contracts installed on them, and are where ledgers are stored.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say "peers are the physical extension of transacting organizations".
You could for example have a client organization that transacts without owning a peer.
I'd simply say that peers are where ledgers are stored and where chaincode is executed. Or use some existing definition from peers topic or glossary.

Author: At a high level I think it's important the relational aspect of peers over just saying they have chaincodes and ledgers, but I'll remove this "physical extension of transacting organizations" bit.

> These roles are important to understand before you create a peer, as they will influence your customization and deployment decisions. Once you understand them, you will need to customize the configuration of your peer to suit them, keeping in mind as well the cluster and infrastructure decisions you have made. For a look at the various decisions you will need to make, check out doc:`deploypeer/peerplan`.

Reviewer: "These roles are important to understand before you create a peer, as they will influence your customization and deployment decisions. Once you understand them, you will need to customize the configuration of your peer to suit them"

This seems very abstract. What roles are you talking about? How do they influence? If we are not making a specific point, may be better to remove.

Author: This is, admittedly, vague, but purposefully so as it sets up the information that is in the peer plan doc (linked to at the end of the paragraph). We obviously can't spell all of these things out here, as there's a whole separate doc for that. However, I think the second sentence here basically repeats the first one, so I've deleted it.

> The configuration file of the peer, which must be customized before the peer can be deployed, is called ``core.yaml``. You can find a sample ``core.yaml`` configuration file `in the sampleconfig directory of Hyperledger Fabric <https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/master/sampleconfig/core.yaml>`_. This sample configuration in the Fabric repo is exactly the same as the ``core.yaml`` file that comes bundled with the peer image. While a sample ``core.yaml`` can also be found in the ``fabric-samples`` repo, this ``core.yaml`` might be slightly different from the production ``core.yaml`` and should not be used on a production peer. For information about how to download the production ``core.yaml`` along with the peer image, check out :doc:`deploypeer/peerdeploy`.

Reviewer: There is only one core.yaml... it gets copied into the image (on dockerhub) and binary download (on github).
There is no core.yaml in fabric-samples. fabric-samples uses the peer image with the bundled core.yaml.
So we can simplify as follows:

```suggestion
The configuration values in a peer's ``core.yaml`` file must be customized or overridden with environment variables. You can find the default ``core.yaml`` configuration file `in the sampleconfig directory of Hyperledger Fabric <https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/master/sampleconfig/core.yaml>`_. This configuration file is bundled with the peer image and is also included with the downloadable binaries. For information about how to download the production ``core.yaml`` along with the peer image, check out :doc:`deploypeer/peerdeploy`.
```

> As you can see, there are quite a number of parameters you will need to set or to customize for your node to work properly. In general, if you do not have the need to change a tuning value, leave it alone. You will, however, need to set a number of configuration values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there are many parameters in the default ``core.yaml``, you will only need to customize a small percentage of them. In general, if you do not have the need to change a tuning value, keep the default value.
```

> You can think of ``core.yaml`` as being separated in three main sections:

Reviewer: The list below are the types of properties that need to be customized, but it doesn't map cleanly to sections of core.yaml. I'd use some more general wording than 'sections'.

Author: Changed this to "types of parameters".

* **Identifiers**: these include not just the paths to the relevant local MSP and Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates, but also the name (known as the "peer ID") of the peer and the MSP ID of the organization that owns the peer.

* **Addresses and paths**: because peers are not entities unto themselves but interact with other peers and components, you must specify a series of addresses in the configuration. These include addresses where the peer itself can be found by other components as well as the addresses where, for example, chaincodes can be found (if you are employing external chaincodes). Similarly, you will need to specify the location of your ledger (as well as your state database type) and the path to your external builders (again, if you intend to employ external chaincodes).

  * **Operations and metrics**: these parameters allow you to set up methods for monitoring the health and performance of your peer through the configuration of endpoints.

> * **Gossip**: components in Fabric networks communicate with each other using the "gossip" protocol. Through this protocol, they can be discovered by the discovery service and disseminate blocks to each other. Note that gossip communications are secured using TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Gossip**: components in Fabric networks communicate with each other using the "gossip" protocol. Through this protocol, they can be discovered by the discovery service and disseminate blocks and private data to each other. Note that gossip communications are secured using TLS.
```
